.\" The author of this work has dedicated it to the public by waiving all of
.\" his or her rights to the work under copyright law and all related or
.\" neighboring legal rights he or she had in the work, to the extent allowable
.\" by law.
.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt II 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm ii
.Nd IRC it or IRC improved
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl d Ar directory
.Op Fl f Ar realname
.Op Fl i Ar prefix
.Op Fl k Ar password
.Op Fl n Ar nickname
.Op Fl p Ar port
.Op Fl s Ar servername
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a minimalistic FIFO and file system based IRC client.
Upon connection, it creates an IRC directory
.Ar prefix
which contains the server directory that can be overridden by
.Ar directory .
Beyond the path, inside the server directory, there are channel and nickname
directories together with a FIFO file named "ii" and a regular one called
"out".
These two latter files do also occur inside each channel and nickname
directory, which themselves are created upon joining a channel or opening of a
private conversation.
.Pp
The FIFO files "in" are used to communicate with the server, while the regular
"out" files carry the server messages.
If the data sent to an "in" file is not an IRC command, in other words not
starting with a slash "/", it will be interpreted as a regular message (PRIVMSG)
which later pops up in the "out" file in the same directory level.
.Pp
The idea of this file system structure, is to be able to communicate with an
IRC server using basic command line tools.
For example, if the desired action is to join a channel, the command
.Cm echo "/j #channel" > in
will do the trick no matter which "in" FIFO file it is addressed to, as long as
the file is in use by the current instance of
.Nm .
For more information about available commands, see further down in this
section.
.Pp
The arguments are as follows, with the default value enclosed within brackets:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl d Ar directory
Overrides the
.Ar servername
part within the directory structure that
.Nm
creates.
.It Fl f Ar realname
The real name that is to be associated with the
.Ar nickname .
.It Fl i Ar prefix
The directory in which
.Nm
will create its server directory.
(irc)
.It Fl k Ar password
A password used to authenticate the
.Ar nickname
with the server. Be aware of the problem that it will be visible in the process
list.
If this is not a desired side-effect, then simply use a query to submit the
password.
.It Fl n Ar nickname
The used nickname during the IRC session.
This is of course also possible to change in a later stage by querying the
server using the
.Cm /n
command.
(anonymous)
.It Fl p Ar port
The port that
.Nm
will connect to on the specific
.Ar servername .
(6667)
.It Fl s Ar servername
The server to which
.Nm
will connect.
(irc.freenode.net)
.El
.Pp
The commands that
.Nm
understands are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Cm /a [message]
Used in order to mark oneself as away.
The server will send the
.Ar message
automatically in reply to a PRIVMSG directed at the user (you).
If
.Ar message
is omitted, the away status is removed.
.It Cm /j #channel/nickname [message]/message
Join a channel or open a private conversation with another user having the nick
.Ar nickname .
If the purpose is to join a channel, then the
.Ar message
is meaning the key that is needed in order to join the password protected
channel.
When opening a private conversation, then the
.Ar message
(compulsory) is sent to the
.Ar nickname
as a PRIVMSG.
.It Cm /l [comment]
Causes the user to leave the current channel with an optional
.Ar comment .
This must be sent to the "in" FIFO file located within the channel directory.
.It Cm /n nickname
Change the nick to
.Ar nickname .
.It Cm /t [#channel] [topic]
Change the topic of the specified channel, or the current one if omitted, to
.Ar topic .
If
.Ar topic
is skipped, the server will report what the current topic is to the "out" file
which is in the server directory.
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Cm in
The FIFO files "in" are used to communicate with the server.
.It Cm irc
Inside this directory is the server directory and within the last one, there
are channel and nickname directories together with a FIFO file named "ii" and a
regular one called "out".
These two latter files do also occur inside each channel and nickname
directory, which themselves are created upon joining a channel or opening of a
private conversation.
.Pp
It is possible to override
.Cm irc
by specifying the
.Ar prefix
argument.
.It Cm out
These files carry the server messages.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr echo 1 ,
.Xr tail 1
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Copyright \(co 2005-2006 by Anselm R. Garbe <garbeam (at) gmail (dot) com>
.An Copyright \(co 2005-2008 by Nico Golde <nico (at) ngolde (dot) de>
.Sh CAVEATS
.Nm
cannot tell whether a specific user exists when the
.Cm /j
command is used to open a private conversation.
This means that it always succeeds if the syntax is correct, even if nobody
will receive the
.Ar message .
However, the server will, in these cases, report when a specific user is not
available, so a check in the "out" file, in the server directory, works as a
solution to this problem.
